# Ingress Module Release 4.0.0

Welcome to the latest release of `Ingress` module of [`SIGHUP Distribution`](https://github.com/sighupio/fury-distribution) maintained by team SIGHUP.

This release updates several packages to the latest versions available for new features, bug fixes and improved security, it also drops compatibility with Kubernetes 1.28 and introduces compatibility with Kubernetes 1.32.

## Component versions ðŸš¢

| Component          | Supported Version                                                                        | Previous Version |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------: |
| `aws-cert-manager` | N.A.                                                                                     |   `No update`    |
| `aws-external-dns` | N.A.                                                                                     |   `No update`    |
| `cert-manager`     | [`v1.17.1`](https://cert-manager.io/docs/releases/release-notes/release-notes-1.17/)     |     `1.16.1`     |
| `external-dns`     | [`v0.16.1`](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns/releases/tag/v0.16.1)        |     `0.15.0`     |
| `forecastle`       | [`v1.0.156`](https://github.com/stakater/Forecastle/releases/tag/v1.0.156)               |    `1.0.156`     |
| `nginx`            | [`v1.12.1`](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/releases/tag/controller-v1.12.1) |     `1.11.3`     |

> Please refer the individual release notes to get a more detailed information on each release.

## Breaking changes ðŸ’”

## Ingress NGINX Controller

Upstream Ingress NGINX Controller has introduced some breaking changes in version 1.12.0 included in this version of the ingress module. We recommend reading [upstream's changelog](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/main/changelog/controller-1.12.0.md). Here's a list of changes that could possibly impact you as a user of the module:

- Remove `global-rate-limit` feature. This removes the following configuration options:

  - `global-rate-limit-memcached-host`
  - `global-rate-limit-memcached-port`
  - `global-rate-limit-memcached-connect-timeout`
  - `global-rate-limit-memcached-max-idle-timeout`
  - `global-rate-limit-memcached-pool-size`
  - `global-rate-limit-status-code`

  It also removes the following annotations:

  - `global-rate-limit`
  - `global-rate-limit-window`
  - `global-rate-limit-key`
  - `global-rate-limit-ignored-cidrs`

- Remove 3rd party lua plugin support. This removes the following configuration options:

  - `plugins`

  It also removes support for user provided Lua plugins in the `/etc/nginx/lua/plugins` directory.

- Enable security features by default ([#11819](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/pull/11819)).

  - `--enable-annotation-validation` flag gets enabled by default.
  - `allow-cross-namespace-resources` option gets disabled by default.
  - `annotations-risk-level` option gets lowered to "High" by default.
  - `strict-validate-path-type` option gets enabled by default.

Upstream Ingress NGINX Controller has also corrected a few critical CVEs in version 1.12.1, included in this version of the ingress module. We recommend reading [upstream's changelog](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/blob/main/changelog/controller-1.12.1.md) to check if you have been impacted.

## external-dns

- **Cloudflare provider**: a breaking change has been introduced in v0.16.0, please see [this issue](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns/issues/5166) for more details.

- **AWS Route 53 provider**: starting from v0.16.0, external-dns will create `AAAA` Alias records by default (see PR [#5111](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns/pull/5111)). This behavior can be disabled with the following command line parameter: `--exclude-record-types=AAAA`, for example when using IPv4-only load balancers.

## Upgrade Guide ðŸ¦®

> âš ï¸ **WARNING**
>
> There are some (possibly) breaking changes, read the Breaking changes section above before continuing.
<!-- spacer -->

> â„¹ï¸ **INFO**
>
> This update guide is for users of the module and not of the Distribution or users still on furyctl legacy.
> If you are a SD user, the update is performed automatically by furyctl.

### Process

To upgrade this core module from `v3.0.1` to `v4.0.0`, you need to download this new version and apply the instructions below.

```bash
kustomize build <your-project-path> | kubectl apply -f - --server-side
```

For the Terraform modules, run `terraform init -upgrade`, then apply the new version.
